# 1. About this book

_Everything curl_ is meant to become the complete guide to everything there is
to know about curl, the project, the command line tool, the library, how
everything started and how it came to be what it is today. How we work on
developing it further, what it takes to use it, how you can contribute with
code and bug reports and why all those millions of existing users use it.

This book is meant to be readable by both casual readers and the somewhat more
experienced developers, and I hope to offer something for you to pick and
choose from. Don't read it from front to back. Read the chapters you're
curious about and go back and forth as you see fit.

I hope to run this book project as I do all other projects I work on: in the
open, completely free to download and read, free for anyone to comment on,
available for everyone to contribute to and help out with. Send your bug
reports, pull-requests or critiques to me and I'll improve this book
accordingly.

This book will never be finished. I intend to keep working on it and while I
may at some point in time consider it fairly complete and covering most
aspects of the project (even if only that currently seems like an
insurmountable goal), the curl project will continue to move so there will be
things to update here as well.

This book project started at the end of September 2015. I have a basic layout
plan for a first "edition". While I have no fixed time schedule for this, my
hope is to have something decent by the summer 2016.

## The book site

There will be a web site dedicated for this book. It is not made nor available
yet, as there really is not enough content to show off to anyone yet anyway.

## The Author

With the hope of becoming just a co-author of this material, I am Daniel
Stenberg. I founded the curl project. I'm a developer at heart, for fun and
profit. I live and work in Stockholm, Sweden.

All there is to know about me can be found on my web site
[http://daniel.haxx.se](http://daniel.haxx.se/).
