# 3. curl and open source

## What is open source

Generally, Open Source software is software that can be freely accessed, used,
changed, and shared (in modified or unmodified form) by anyone. Open source
software is typically made by many people, and distributed under licenses that
comply with the definition.

Free Software is an older and related term that basically says the same thing
for all our intents and purposes, but we stick to the term Open source in this
document for simplicity.

## The license

curl and libcurl are distributed under an open source license known as a MIT
license derivate. It is very short, simple and easy to grasp. It follows here
in its completeness:

    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

    Copyright (c) 1996 - 2015, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>.

    All rights reserved.

    Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
    with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
    notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN
    NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
    DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
    OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE
    OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not
    be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
    in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.

This is basically legalese that says you are allowed to change the code,
redistribute the code, redistribute binaries built from the code and build
proprietary code with it, without anyone requiring you to give any changes
back to the project - but you may not claim that you wrote it.

## Copyright

Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the
creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution.

The copyright owner(s) can agree to allowing others to use its work by
licensing it. That's what we do in the curl project. The copyright is the
foundation which the licensing works on.

Daniel Stenberg is the owner of most copyrights in the curl project.

## Legal

The curl project obeys to national laws in which it works. It being a highly
international project visible, downloadble and usable in effectively every
single country on earth may of course imply that some local laws can be
circumvented when using curl. That's just the nature of it and if uncertain,
you should check your own local situation.

There have been law suits involving technology that curl provides. One such
case known to the author of this was a patent case in the US that insisted
they had the rights to resumed file transfers.

As a generic software component that is usable everywhere to everyone, there
are times when libcurl - in particular - are used in nefarious or downright
malicious ways or circumstances. Examples include being used in virus and
malware software. That is unfortunate but nothing we can prevent.

## Code of conduct

As contributors and maintainers of this project, we pledge to respect all
people who contribute through reporting issues, posting feature requests,
updating documentation, submitting pull requests or patches, and other
activities.

We are committed to making participation in this project a harassment-free
experience for everyone, regardless of level of experience, gender, gender
identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, personal appearance,
body size, race, ethnicity, age, or religion.

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include the use of sexual
language or imagery, derogatory comments or personal attacks, trolling, public
or private harassment, insults, or other unprofessional conduct.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct. Project maintainers who do not
follow the Code of Conduct may be removed from the project team.

This code of conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces
when an individual is representing the project or its community.

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by opening an issue or contacting one or more of the project
maintainers.

## Development

We encourage everyone to participate in the development of curl and
libcurl. We appreciate all the help we can get and while the significant
portion of this project is source code, there are a lot more than just coding
and debugging help that is needed and useful.

We develop and discuss everything in the open, preferably on the mailing
lists.

## Source code on github

The source code to curl and libcurl have also been provided and published
publicly and it continues to be uploaded to the [main web
site](http://curl.haxx.se/) for every release.

Since March 2010, the curl source code repository has been hosted on
[github.com](https://github.com/). By being up to date with the changes there,
you can follow our day to day development very closely.
